What is Git? What are the advantages of using Git?
answer:
Git is a DevOps tool used for source code management.
It is a free and open-source version control system used to handle small to very large projects efficiently.
Git is used to tracking changes in the source code, enabling multiple developers to work together on non-linear development.
advantages of git are:
1. Performance
Git performs very strongly and reliably when compared to other version control systems. New code changes can be easily committed, version branches can be effortlessly compared and merged, and code can also be optimized to perform better. Algorithms used in developing Git take the full advantage of the deep knowledge stored within, with regards to the attributes used to create real source code file trees, how files are modified over time and what kind of file access patterns are used to recall code files as and when needed by developers. Git primarily focuses upon the file content itself rather than file names while determining the storage and file version history. Object formats of Git repository files use several combinations of delta encoding and compression techniques to store metadata objects and directory contents.

2. Security
Git is designed specially to maintain the integrity of source code. File contents as well as the relationship between file and directories, tags, commits, versions etc. are secured cryptographically using an algorithm called SHA1 which protects the code and change history against accidental as well as malicious damage. 
You can be sure to have an authentic content history for your source code with Git.

3. Flexibility
A key design objective of Git is the kind of flexibility it offers to support several kinds of nonlinear development workflows and its efficiency in handling both small scale and large scale projects as well as protocols. 
It is uniquely designed to support tagging and branching operations and store each and every activity carried out by the user as an integral part of “change” history. Not all VCSs support this feature.

4. Wide acceptance
Git offers the type of performance, functionality, security, and flexibility that most developers and teams need to develop their projects. 
When compared to other VCS Git is the most widely accepted system owing to its universally accepted usability and performance standards.

5. Quality open source project
Git is a widely supported open source project with over ten years of operational history.
People maintaining the project are very well matured and possess a long-term vision to meet the long-term needs of users by releasing staged upgrades at regular intervals of time to improve functionality as well as usability. Quality of open source software made available on Git is heavily scrutinized a countless number of times and businesses today depend heavily on Git code quality.
